url=https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18404782/
title=Risk factors and adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of endometrial cancer.
from:J BUON
time=2008 Jan-Mar
abstract: Endometrial carcinoma is the most common and potentially curable gynecologic malignant neoplasm. The staging of endometrial cancer, according to the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO), is surgical. Recent studies suggest a therapeutic benefit associated with extensive retroperitoneal lymph node evaluation to determine the disease extent and thereby more effectively direct potentially life-saving adjuvant therapy. Due to the increasing number of endometrial cancer patients who undergo surgical staging, some independent prognostic factors have been identified in early stages (stage I-II), including lymph-vascular space involvement, histologic grade 3, aggressive histologic subtypes (uterine papillary serous carcinoma, clear cell carcinoma), depth of myometrial invasion, cervical invasion and the age of patients. Adjuvant radiation therapy, known to offer survival benefit in advanced-stage disease, may also offer survival benefit in intermediate-risk surgical stage I, but this is followed by a significant risk of serious complications. Based on randomized clinical trials, this review identified that only a limited body of evidence is available which can help clinicians make decisions about adjuvant chemotherapy of patients with high-risk stage I and II, as well as stage IIIA endometrial cancer. Further investigations are required to define the subgroup of patients who benefit from postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy. In addition, the optimal regimen remains to be defined as all of them (doxorubicin/cisplatin--AP, cyclophosphamide/ doxorubicin/cisplatin--CAP, paclitaxel/carboplatin--TC, paclitaxel/doxorubicin/cisplatin--TAP) cause significant toxicity. Thereby, combination of carboplatin plus paclitaxel represents an efficacious, low-toxicity regimen for managing intermediate-risk surgical stage I, as well as advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer.