url=https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18707756/
title=The impact of surgery on survival of elderly women with endometrial cancer in the SEER program from 1992-2002.
from:Gynecol Oncol
time=2008 Oct
abstract: Objectives:Few population-based studies have evaluated surgical treatment and outcomes in elderly patients with endometrial cancer. The National Cancer Institute's SEER, Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results, Program provides a database to examine this issue. The objective of this study was to determine the extent to which elderly women with endometrial cancer receive surgical treatment and to evaluate the impact of surgery on survival.Methods:Data were obtained from the SEER registries for expanded races from 1992-2002. The inclusion criteria were women ages 50 to 95 with pathologically confirmed endometrial cancer. Cases with multiple primaries were excluded. The data were examined with respect to histology, radiotherapy use, extent of surgery and FIGO stage. The survival data were analyzed using a Cox proportional hazard model. Chi-squared tests were used to examine the extent to which elderly women with endometrial cancer receive surgical treatment, hysterectomy at minimum. Endometrial cancer-specific mortality was analyzed.Results:27,517 women were analyzed with 94% of the cohort receiving surgical treatments. There is a significant trend that suggests elderly women, aged 65+ years at time of endometrial cancer diagnosis, received surgical treatment less often than younger women (p&lt;0.001). The age-adjusted hazard of death was reduced with surgical intervention. After adjustment for stage at diagnosis, histology, and radiotherapy, the hazard ratios for endometrial cancer-specific mortality were decreased when surgery was undertaken.Conclusions:In this population-based study, the poor prognosis associated with advanced age may be in part associated with the decreased frequency of surgical treatment. The reasons need to be further investigated. Continued efforts should be directed at providing surgical treatment for elderly patients with endometrial cancer.