url=https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21446103/
title=[Characteristics of endometrial carcinoma in obese women].
from:Med Pregl
time=2010 Sep-Oct
abstract: Introduction:In most developed countries, endometrial cancer appears as most frequent invasive neoplasm of genital tract. Obesity is one of most important risk factors. Aim of study was to establish characteristics endometrial cancer in obese women.Material and methods:The study included 50 surgically treated women with endometrial cancer. According body mass index they were divided into two groups--group A (30 obese women), group B (20 non-obese women).Results and discussion:Non-obese women with endometrial cancer are statistically significantly older than obese. Menopausal status, parity are not statistically significant. The obese group most frequently includes endometrioid type of tumor, while non-obese group most frequently includes non-endometrioid types of endometrial cancer. Over 50% thick myometrial invasion is statistically more frequent in non-obese group than in obese group. In obese group, less than 50% thick myometrial invasion, is statistically significant in comparison to nonobese group. High-differentiated endometrial cancer (G1) is statistically significantly more present in obese women than non-obese. Low-differentiated endometrial cancer is statistically more frequent in non-obese women than in obese. Most frequent in both groups is NG2. According to FIGO stage I, disease is statistically significantly more frequent in obese group than in non-obese. In non-obese group, total number of diseased in higher stages (II and III) is statistically significantly higher than in stage I.Conclusion:Endometrial cancer present in obese women is mostly endometroid type I, with slow myometrial invasion, with histological grade I, nuclear grade II in FIGO stage I of disease. In non-obese women, non-endometrioid cancer-- type II is more frequent, with faster myometrial invasion, histological grade II and III, nuclear grade II, in FIGO stage II of disease.