url=https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31983192/
title=Comparative Study in Quality of Life between Thai Endometrial Cancer Survivors and Healthy Women in Thammasat University Hospital.
from:Asian Pac J Cancer Prev
time=2020 Jan 1
abstract: Background:This study aimed to survey quality of life (QoL) in endometrial cancer survivors between surgery with adjuvant therapy (radiation with or without chemotherapy) and surgery alone in Thammasat University Hospital, Thailand.Materials and methods:This cross-sectional study was conducted at the Gynecologic Oncology clinic, Thammasat University hospital, Thailand between March 2011 and May 2019. Participants were endometrial cancer cases who underwent surgical staging with or without adjuvant treatment (study) and healthy women who came to gynecologic department for annual cervical screening (control). Assessment of QoL was investigated via the structural questionnaire designed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 (Thai version).Results:During the period of the study, 94 participants who were diagnosed with endometrial cancer and underwent surgical staging were enrolled. There were 51, 43 and 51 cases in group A (surgery with adjuvant therapy), group B (surgery only) and group C (control), respectively. Control cases were participants who had comparable demographic characteristics and underwent gynecological checkup during the period of study. In part of physical functioning, group B had statistically better scores than group A. Participant in group B and C reported significantly better QoL in part of social functioning than group A. Symptom severity; appetite loss and constipation in group B was statistically less than in group A. Constipation problems in group A and C were comparable. Participants in group C had worse global health status than group A/B.Conclusion:Adjuvant treatment with either radiation or chemotherapy had negative impacts on QoL in endometrial cancer survivors. It impacted physical health, social function, appetite loss, and constipation. All endometrial cancer survivors had global health scores better than healthy peers. Thoroughly counseling to endometrial cancer survivors remains an important tool for increasing awareness of treatment complications and lowering psychological emotional stress.&lt;br /&gt;.