url=https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16450282/
title=[Endometrial cancer -- suggestions for the update of the guidelines].
from:Zentralbl Gynakol
time=2006 Feb
abstract: Surgical therapy is the mainstay of the treatment of endometrial cancer. Apart from total abdominal hysterectomy und bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, complete pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy has become an integral part of the primary surgical procedure, allowing for definite surgical/histopathological staging. In surgically staged patients, adjuvant measures including external radiotherapy can be applied with a clear indication and unnecessary toxicity can be avoided. In addition complete lymphadenectomy has probably a relevant therapeutic effect. As so far no randomized trials have been completed and lymphadenectomy in the often multi-morbid and obese endometrial cancer patients requires a certain amount of expertise, it is not accepted by all experts or is accepted only if a variety of parameters obtained pre- and intraoperatively are present. On the other hand, the National Comprehensive Cancer Network of the USA recommends a complete pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy for all patients with endometrial cancer, except for those with Stage IA, Grade 1 disease where this procedure is optional. The efficacy of an adjuvant pelvic teletherapy in Stage I patients has been questioned by several randomized trials. In patients having a complete surgical staging, external radiotherapy is often not necessary and can be replaced by vaginal brachytherapy. In advanced stages of endometrial cancer chemotherapy has been shown to be superior to whole abdominal radiotherapy. New multimodal concepts including surgical staging, adjuvant chemo- and targeted radiotherapy have to be evaluated. In the palliative setting novel endocrine strategies are being assessed in addition to the well established progestagen therapy. The efficacy of the standard chemotherapy with adriamycin/cisplatin could be somewhat improved by adding paclitaxel, at the expense of a markedly increased toxicity. Women with the diagnosis of endometrial cancer should be treated in the context of certified clinical trials as it has become the standard for patients with breast or ovarian cancer.