url=https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19190080/
title=Resistance to chemotherapy and hormone therapy in endometrial cancer.
from:Endocr Relat Cancer
time=2009 Jun
abstract: Endometrial cancer is the most common gynecological malignancy in developed countries and represents the eighth leading cause of cancer related death in women. The growing incidence of endometrial cancer leads scientists and oncologists to identify effective preventive measures and also molecular markers for diagnosis and prognosis. Chemotherapy and hormone therapy is the mainstay treatment option for advanced and recurrent endometrial cancer and response to therapy is one of the most important factor which favors prognosis and overall survival. In recent years, there have been major advances in the treatment of patients with endometrial cancer. Despite advances made in the treatment of this cancer, the overall survival of patients has not significantly improved because considerable number of patients harbor tumor refractory to these therapies and the majority of the initially responsive tumors become refractory to treatments. Therefore, determination of sensitivity/resistance is becoming increasingly important for individualization of endometrial cancer therapy. The aim of this review is to present the existing knowledge about the molecular markers that could play a crucial role in determining resistance to chemo- and hormone therapy. Extensive literature search for the cell signaling pathways and factors responsible for chemoresistance have been performed and reviewed. Several recent studies suggest that deregulations in the apoptotic pathways (such as p53, Fas/FasL, Bcl-2 family proteins, inhibitor of apoptosis proteins), survival pathways (PI3K/AKT, MAPK), hormone receptor signaling pathways (progesterone receptor), Cyclooxygenase-2 and Her-2 are considered as key factors involved in the onset and maintenance of therapeutic resistance, suggesting that resistance is a multi-factorial phenomenon.