url=https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20518262/
title=[Significance of hysteroscopic resection in diagnostics of endometrial cancer].
from:Ceska Gynekol
time=2010 Apr
abstract: Objectives:Endometrial cancer is the second most common malignancy of the female genital tract. Its incidence in the Czech Republic is 32/100 000 women and year with a permanent increasing tendency. In comparison with incidence, its mortality remains relatively low, with mortality ratio of 6.7 per 100,000 women and year. The decrease in mortality might be explained predominantly by early diagnostics. The most controversial issue is the potential risk of microscopic extrauterine dissemination of cancerous cells within the peritoneal cavity and circulation during hysteroscopy, and the question if the relatively high pressure of distension medium used during hysteroscopies may or may not multiply the risk.Design:Retrospective study.Materials and methods:Totally, 400 endometrial biopsies were collected during years 2007-2009 at our clinic. In 56 patients, endometrial cancer was diagnosed. Afterwards, 44 women underwent surgery, during which peritoneal washing (lavage) and cytological examination were done.Results:Fifty-six patients with histologically verified endometrial carcinoma were studied. The samples examined in the study were classified by grading as follows: G1 n=34, G1-2 n=10, G2 n=10, G3-4 n=2. In 44 cases that underwent radical surgery, no cancerous cells in peritoneal washings were found. Only in 1 case, the cytology obtained from peritoneal washing was considered to be suspicious. In 9 cases, carcinoma on the base of the polyp was detected, and in 2 cases, no residuum of cancer was observed after hysterectomy.Conclusion:In accordance with contemporary literature and based on our study, we suggest that hystero-resectoscopy does not increase the risk of dissemination of malignant cells within the peritoneal cavity and does not worsen the prognosis of the disease. On the contrary, the samples taken under visual control provide more precise and earlier diagnostics of endometrial cancer.