url=https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28953133/
title=Difference in Practice Patterns in the Management of Endometrial Cancer: A Survey of the Members of 4 East Asian Gynecologic Oncology Groups.
from:Int J Gynecol Cancer
time=2017 Nov
abstract: Objective:The aim of this article was to identify current practice patterns of care in the surgical and adjuvant management of endometrial cancer in East Asia (Korea, Japan, China, and Taiwan) METHODS: A validated 20-item questionnaire on surgical and adjuvant procedures for endometrial cancer was sent to active members of the Gynecologic Oncology Group from 4 East Asian countries. Data were collected using an Internet survey database.Results:A total of 376 members from Korea (n = 108), Japan (n = 140), China (n = 51), and Taiwan (n = 77) responded to the survey. With respect to early-stage endometrial cancer, laparotomy (57.7%) was the most preferred mode of surgery in Japan, whereas laparoscopy was the most common in the remaining 3 countries. For patients with presumed stage IA/G1 disease, approximately 65% of respondents favored systematic lymphadenectomy. For patients with presumed stage IB disease, most respondents stated that systematic lymphadenectomy should be performed (92.6% for stage IBG1, 95.8% for stage IBG3). Meanwhile, the extents of lymphadenectomy differed among countries (P &lt; 0.001). Considerable agreement was noted between countries regarding indications for adjuvant therapy for stage IIIA or IIIC1 disease, whereas the preferred options for adjuvant therapy varied according to country (P &lt; 0.001). Specifically, chemotherapy was the most common selection option in Japan, whereas concurrent chemoradiotherapy was preferred in the other countries.Conclusions:Considerable agreement was identified with respect to the necessity for lymphadenectomy for surgical staging and the indications for adjuvant therapy. However, extents of surgery and preferred adjuvant treatment options for endometrial cancer varied widely between countries.