url=https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/8103784/
title=[Evaluation of the degree of biological behavior in endometrial hyperplasia and endometrial carcinoma: an investigation of proliferative activity, oncogene, and extracellular matrix].
from:Nihon Sanka Fujinka Gakkai Zasshi
time=1993 Aug
abstract: Endometrial cancers have been considered to be less prevalent in Japan than in Western countries. However, with the increase in life expectancy, the Westernization of the Japanese diet, and changes in the hormonal environment, the prevalence of the disease has gradually increased even in our country. Similar increases in cancers of the breasts, lungs, colons, and ovaries have been noted in recent years. Much is still unknown regarding the pathogenesis and natural history of endometrial cancer. Although endometrial hyperplasia is considered to be a precancerous lesion of endometrial carcinoma, the relationship between those diseases has not been elucidated to the same degree as that between cervical cancer and cervical dysplasia, or carcinoma in situ. Research findings in genetic oncology have revealed that tumorigenesis involves a multi-step process. It is probable that activation of multiple genes, inactivation of anti-oncogenes, and disappearance of normal inhibitor genes occur in the process of the development of endometrial cancer. The purpose of this study is to elucidate the relationship between oncogenes and the development of endometrial cancer. In addition, the significance of endometrial hyperplasia as a clinical entity is also be evaluated. The roles played by oncogenes in endometrial cancers and endometrial hyperplasias were examined using the most recent molecular biological and immunohistochemical methods. Also, the differences in cellular proliferation and tissue invasiveness were discussed. Results obtained were as follows. Evaluation of cell proliferation (PCNA, FCM) revealed that there was no difference in proliferative activity between atypical hyperplasia and well differentiated adenocarcinoma. Evaluation of oncogene abnormalities (c-myc,c-erbB-2,K-ras,p53) revealed that the development of endometrial cancer was a multistep process involving several oncogenes, as it has been noted in the development of other cancers. Evaluation of extracellular matrix and related factors (cathepsin D, laminin, type IV collagen, tenascin, CD44) showed that tissue invasiveness differed between atypical hyperplasia and well differentiated adenocarcinoma.